# finalproj

movies.py contains code to pull data from metacritic.com crawling and scraping pages for the top 100 movies of all time with get_metacritic_data(). It also makes requests for additional data to the Open Movie Database with get_omdb_data(). In order to use the OMDb API, you will need an api key which can be obtained at http://www.omdbapi.com/. This should be added to a file called secrets.py as the value of a variable named secret_key in order to sync properly. 

In order to get started, you will need to run init_db() and insert_data(). init_db() will create a database with two tables, one to hold the metacritic data, the other to hold the omdb data. insert_data() will call both get_metacritic_data() and get_omdb_data() and add the data to the database. By calling the get data functions, the program will also create a cache file called movies-cache.json.

The needed pip modules to run the program can be installed by creating a virtual environment and loading them from requirements.txt. One of the necessary modules is plotly, information on which can be found at https://plot.ly/. This module will be responsible for creating the data visualizatins.

interactive_prompt() is the main function in the program. After you have created the database by following the above instructions, the calls to init_db() and insert_data() can be commented out or removed in favor of interactive_prompt(). This function allows the user to choose from 5 data visualization options based on the data, which will be generated by plotly in the user's web browser. The options will be printed to the console with numeric options, and the user simply has to input the number associated with the desired visualization. The program can be ended manually by inputing 'exit'. 

For data visualization, the plotting functions create a list of objects of the self-defined class Movie. Each Movie object has the attributes x_val, y_val, title, and vis_type. x_val and y_val correspond to the two data values needed for the requested visualization, the title is the movie's title, and vis_type is an integer associated with the requested visualization option. vis_type is used in the __str__() method for Movie to render the proper string for the visualization.